# Baseball-Game-Simulator
In this game, select two teams from among the best in baseball history to battle it out and see which team comes out victorious. Team rosters are selected by searching through a baseball database using the team’s three letter code and year of play, and loading their stats into two lists, one for the home team and one for the away team. Since these lists include all players on the team for that season (even those who did not play much) the lists are sorted by total At Bats with the assumption that the best players have the most times at the plate. This might not be true if a great player is traded to another team towards the end of the season and doesn’t have many games with the new team. Each player is represented in the database by a 5-2-2 name code which has to be converted to a real name that the user would understand. This is done by searching through a file called ‘People.csv’. This simulator game is based strictly on offense, so there are 9 batters (i.e. no pitchers have to bat). Historical batting statistics for each player are loaded into the game from ‘Batters.csv’ and used to calculate their chances of getting on base and by what means (walk, hit-by-pitch, single, double, triple, homerun). If the batter does not make it to base, then are three ways of getting out: strikeout (using stats from database), groundout (based on the number of hits they had that season), or flyout (based on number of extra base hits they had that season.) The number of innings played is an input by the user at the game setup stage. Each half inning displays the game action using columns for batter, offense, defense, outs, and runners. After each half inning, the scoreboard displays the total number of runs and hits for each team. The speed of the game is selected in the setup stage as fast, medium, or slow. Regardless of the speed, the same information is displayed on the screen. It just depends how slowly the user wants the information to be displayed. After the selected number of innings are over, the final results are displayed and the user has the option of playing another game.
